# Prevem: Open source preview manager for emails

Prevem is a batch manager for email previews. It provides a RESTful CRUD API
which may be used two types of agents:

 * *Composer* - The mail user-agent (MUA) in which a user prepares a mailing.
   Generally, the Composer submits a `PreviewBatch` and polls to track its progress.
 * *Renderer* - The backend service which prepares a screenshot of how an email would
   appear when read in different MUAs. Generally, a Renderer polls for a pending
   `PreviewTask` record, prepares a screenshot, and then marks it as completed.

# Setup

```
$ git clone https://github.com/civicrm/prevem
...
$ cd prevem
$ npm install
...
$ node .
Browse your REST API at http://0.0.0.0:3000/explorer
Web server listening at: http://0.0.0.0:3000/
```

At this point, you can visit http://localhost:3000/explorer to examine
the available APIs.

# Development

Starting the service with `node .` should create a working environment,
but it's a bit cumbersome to develop on. For local development (and only
for local development), it's better to start via:

```
$ npm install -g gulp
$ gulp develop
```

This will launch the service and execute the test suite. If you make
any changes to the code, it will relaunch the service and re-execute
the test suite.

If you encounter a hard-crash during development, you may need to
manually restart `gulp develop`.

# API Examples

The following sections discuss a bit about how other agents are
expected to interact with `prevem` with some example use-cases
and API calls. To follow along, it is best to open the API
explorer (http://localhost:3000/explorer) and run the commands.

*TYPOGRAPHICAL NOTE: Most API calls accept an input-document of
type `application/json`, and this is displayed in the examples.
However, in some cases, the input is passed as a URL parameter.
Such input should encoded twice (firstly, as JSON; secondly,
as URL data). For readability, we display the examples as if
 they were just JSON.*

## API Examples: Integrating with a Composer

A *Composer* should generally use two API calls. When the user wishes
to prepare a new preview, the *Composer* should create a new `PreviewBatch`
record:

```
POST /api/PreviewBatches
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json

{
  "consumerId": "SOME-UNIQUE-ID"
  "batchId": "SOME-UNIQUE-ID",
  "message": {
    "subject": "Hello world",
    "body_html": "<html><body>Hello world (in <b>HTML</b>)</body></html>"
    "body_text": "Hello world (in text)"
  },
  "renderers": ["gmail", "outlook"]
}
```

The *Composer* may then poll periodically to determine how well the preview
has progressed by fetching a list of `PreviewTask` records filtered on the
`batchId`. The `filter` option accepts a JSON expression.

```
// TYPOGRAPHICAL NOTE: Escaping altered for readibility.
GET /api/PreviewTasks?filter={
  "where": {
    "batchId": "SOME-UNIQUE-ID"
  }
}

```

## API Examples: Integrating with a Renderer (WIP, NOT IMPLEMENTED, SPECULATIVE)

There may be several renderers (such as a Gmail renderer or a Microsoft
Outlook renderer). Each renderer should use two API calls. First, it
should periodically poll to see if any new tasks are waiting for it:

```
POST /api/PreviewTasks/claim
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json

{
  "filter": {
    "where": {
      "renderer": "MY_SUPPORTED_RENDERING_TYPE"
    }
  }
}
```

The request will ordinarily return an empty object. However, if there are
any pending tasks, it will reserve and return the next available task.

After working on the task, the renderer should submit the resulting
screenshot:

```
POST /api/PreviewTasks/123
Content-Type: application/json
Accept: application/json

{
  "result": {
    "imageBase64": "...Base64-encoded image data..."
  }
}
```

# See also

 * The project is generated by [LoopBack](http://loopback.io) which has its own [LoopBack documentation](http://docs.strongloop.com/display/public/LB/LoopBack)
 * The tests generally follow the approach from https://strongloop.com/strongblog/how-to-test-an-api-with-node-js/,
   but `make test` and `Makefile` have been replaced with `gulp develop` and `gulpfile.js`.
